_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: (λxyz. xyz) deividvale (at) cs.ru.nl

profile:
  align: right
  image: profile.jpeg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  address: >
    <p>Institute for Computing and Information Sciences</p>
    <p>Department of Software Science,</p>
    <p>Radboud University</p>
    <p>Nijmegen, NL</p>

news: true  # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true  # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

Welcome to my personal page.
Please, sit tight, grab a cup of coffee (or tea, if you may),
and enjoy your stay.

I am a post-doc at the Department of Sofware Science, Radboud University Nijmegen,
working under the
NWO [CHORPE](https://www.cs.ru.nl/~cynthiakop/chorpe.html) project.

## Research Interest

My research interests lie mainly in the intersection of
Computer Science, Logic, and Mathematics.
I am somewhat involved or reading a lot about the following topics:

* Higher-order rewriting
* Implicit complexity
* Nominal Techniques
* Structural Complexity
* Type-2 complexity
* Type-theoretical approach to complexity analysis
* Foundations of functional programming
* Formalization of mathematical structures (like rewriting) in Coq

## Main Research Projects

At the moment, I am working on three main research topics,
which I shall briefly present (in somewhat chronological order) below.

I started investigating nominal equational syntax and semantics
as my master thesis research project (you can find it on the publications page).
Mainly, I am concerned with reasoning about the syntax and semantics of
solving negated equations inside the nominal techniques.
<!-- TODO: Add a link to a project page for this project. -->
This (ongoing) project have been producing interesting results and collaborations over the years.

My principal research inquiry, which is the main topic of my Ph.D., focuses on complexity analysis and higher-order rewriting.
A term rewriting system is a model of computation where computations are modeled as a step-by-step transformation on objects.
In this context, studying complexity theory basically means measuring how many steps are needed to perform some task.
<!-- TODO: Write a blog post about rewriting as a model of computation. -->

More recently, I have been involved in a project to apply rewriting techniques to the field of Type-2 Structural Complexity Theory.
It is very new, so more updates will follow in the coming months.

Commit message:

Updates info on about page.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: (λxyz. xyz) deividvale (at) cs.ru.nl

profile:
  align: right
  image: profile.jpeg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  address: >
    <p>Institute for Computing and Information Sciences</p>
    <p>Department of Software Science,</p>
    <p>Radboud University</p>
    <p>Nijmegen, NL</p>

news: true  # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true  # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

I am a post doctoral researcher at the Department of Sofware Science,
Radboud University, working under the
NWO [CHORPE](https://www.cs.ru.nl/~cynthiakop/chorpe.html) project.

Recently,
I was a PhD student also at Department of Sofware Science, Radboud University
working under the NWO Top Project
[ICHOR](https://www.cs.ru.nl/~cynthiakop/ichor.html).
My PhD thesis entitled
''On Semantical Methods for the Analysis of the Complexity of Higher-Order Rewriting''
has been submitted and is currently under revision.

## Research Interest

My research interests lie mainly in the intersection of
Computer Science, Logic, and Mathematics.
I am somewhat involved or reading a lot about the following topics:

* Higher-order rewriting
* Implicit complexity
* Nominal Techniques
* Structural Complexity
* Type-2 complexity
* Type-theoretical approach to complexity analysis
* Foundations of functional programming
* Formalization of mathematical structures (like rewriting) in Coq

## Main Research Projects

At the moment, I am working on three main research topics,
which I shall briefly present (in somewhat chronological order) below.

I started investigating nominal equational syntax and semantics
as my master thesis research project (you can find it on the publications page).
Mainly, I am concerned with reasoning about the syntax and semantics of
solving negated equations inside the nominal techniques.
<!-- TODO: Add a link to a project page for this project. -->
This (ongoing) project have been producing interesting results and collaborations over the years.

My principal research inquiry, which is the main topic of my Ph.D., focuses on complexity analysis and higher-order rewriting.
A term rewriting system is a model of computation where computations are modeled as a step-by-step transformation on objects.
In this context, studying complexity theory basically means measuring how many steps are needed to perform some task.
<!-- TODO: Write a blog post about rewriting as a model of computation. -->

More recently, I have been involved in a project to apply rewriting techniques to the field of Type-2 Structural Complexity Theory.
It is very new, so more updates will follow in the coming months.
